# Housing_supply_affects_taxation
This project analyzes how the slope of a city’s housing supply curve could influence the city government’s taxation decisions and government expenditure choices. We wish to study how the wage difference between workers employed by local governments differs from the wages paid to similarly qualified workers employed in the private sector. The data we use to measure workers’ wages comes from the Consumer Population Survey Merged Outgoing Rotation Groups (CPS- MORG). This is a nationwide survey of US households conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics which asks a variety of questions, including information about wage earnings, employment, and many demographics. There are several steps in replicating this analysis:

1. Download the data from: http://www.stanford.edu/~diamondr/GSB_Data.zip Unzip the files.
2. Open morg96.dta (or csv equivalent). This is the full sample of all individuals surveyed. We are only interested in workers ages 25 to 55 who reported working at least 35 hours during his last week of work. Do not include any worker who report being self employed. Report the mean, standard deviation, min value, and max value of: workers’ usual weekly earnings, workers’ years of schooling completed, workers’ gender, and worker’s age. Report these summary statistics separately for private sector workers, local government workers, state government workers, and federal government workers.
3. Now we merge in data on the amount of land within an MSA unavailable for real-estate development due to presence of topographical constraints (water, steep grades, swamps..) These data are saves in housing supply.dta (or csv equivalent). This records for each metropolitan area (msafips) a z-scored measure of land unavailability (unaval). Merge this into the cleaned CPS-MORG data. We further merge these together on MSA.
4. Create a variable for ln(weekly earnings) for each worker. We now want to analyze the wage gap between local government workers and private sector workers. Run a regression of ln(weekly earnings) on a 0/1 binary variable of whether the worker is employed by the local government or not. Do not include federal government workers or state government workers in this regression. Who seems to earn more the public or private sector workers?
5. Now we add controls for workers’ demographics to the regressions. Add controls for whether the worker is male, whether the worker is black, whether the worker is hispanic, the age of the worker, the square of the age of the worker, years of education of the worker. Does the wage gap between local government workers and private sector workers change much by adding these controls?
6. Finally, we want to analyze how the local government worker-private sector wage gap differs across metropolitan statistical areas based on the amount of land available for real estate development in that area. Run the previous regression with the worker controls, adding a control for the amount of land available for real estate development, and variable measuring the interaction between the amount of land available for real estate development with the 0/1 binary variable of whether the worker is employed by the local government. Cluster the standard errors by metropolitan statistical area.
7. We repeat the analysis above seperately for workers with at least a 4 year college degree vs those with less education.


